Add benchmark your pallet (#1189)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/benchmark-pallet.md

---
title: Benchmark Your Pallet

> description: Learn how to benchmark your custom pallet extrinsics to generate accurate weight calculations for production use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to benchmark extrinsics in your custom pallet to generate precise weight calculations suitable for production use.
```

Was a little short

categories: Parachains
---

## Introduction

Benchmarking is the process of measuring the computational resources (execution time and storage) required by your pallet's extrinsics. Accurate [weight](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/weights/index.html){target=\_blank} calculations are essential for ensuring your blockchain can process transactions efficiently while protecting against denial-of-service attacks.

This guide continues building on what you've learned through the pallet development series. You'll learn how to benchmark the custom counter pallet extrinsics and integrate the generated weights into your runtime.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- Completed the previous pallet development tutorials:
    - [Create a Pallet](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/create-a-pallet/){target=\_blank}
    - [Mock Your Runtime](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/mock-runtime/){target=\_blank}
    - [Unit Test Pallets](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/pallet-testing/){target=\_blank}

> - Basic understanding of [computational complexity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_complexity){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: Are all of these guides really necessary as prereqs?

    }

    impl_benchmark_test_suite!(Pallet, crate::mock::new_test_ext(), crate::mock::Test);
}
```

This module contains all the [benchmarking definitions](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_benchmarking/v2/index.html){target=\_blank} for your pallet.

## Define the Weight Trait

Add a `weights` module to your pallet that defines the `WeightInfo` trait using the following code:

```rust title="pallets/pallet-custom/src/lib.rs"
#[frame::pallet]
pub mod pallet {
    use frame::prelude::*;
    pub use weights::WeightInfo;

    pub mod weights {
        use frame::prelude::*;

        pub trait WeightInfo {
            fn set_counter_value() -> Weight;
            fn increment() -> Weight;
            fn decrement() -> Weight;
        }

        impl WeightInfo for () {
            fn set_counter_value() -> Weight {
                Weight::from_parts(10_000, 0)
            }
            fn increment() -> Weight {
                Weight::from_parts(15_000, 0)
            }
            fn decrement() -> Weight {
                Weight::from_parts(15_000, 0)
            }
        }
    }

    // ... rest of pallet
}
```

> The `()` implementation provides placeholder weights for development.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that felt a little naked but I wasn't sure what to add. Fixed.

        fn increment() -> Weight;
        fn decrement() -> Weight;
    }

    pub struct SubstrateWeight<T>(PhantomData<T>);
    impl<T: frame_system::Config> WeightInfo for SubstrateWeight<T> {
        fn set_counter_value() -> Weight {
            Weight::from_parts(8_234_000, 0)
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().reads(1))
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().writes(1))
        }

        fn increment() -> Weight {
            Weight::from_parts(12_456_000, 0)
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().reads(2))
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().writes(2))
        }

        fn decrement() -> Weight {
            Weight::from_parts(11_987_000, 0)
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().reads(2))
                .saturating_add(T::DbWeight::get().writes(2))
        }
    }
    ```

    The actual numbers in your `weights.rs` file will vary based on your hardware and implementation complexity. The [`DbWeight`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/weights/struct.RuntimeDbWeight.html){target=\_blank} accounts for database read and write operations.

## Run Your Chain Locally

> Now that you've added the pallet to your runtime, you can follow these steps to launch your parachain locally to test the new functionality using the [Polkadot Omni Node](https://crates.io/crates/polkadot-omni-node){target=\_blank}: 

Reviewer: "Now that you've added the pallet to your runtime," - this guide isn't about adding the pallet to your runtime. Is this section even necessary? Like we're not doing anything after it gets run, so makes me wonder why we're running it?

Reviewer 2: I'm with you here. It basically felt like "You can run it to make sure you didn't break it" but that was about it. I took that section out.

---
title: Benchmark Your Pallet
description: Learn how to benchmark your custom pallet extrinsics to generate accurate weight calculations for production use.
categories: Parachains
---

## Introduction

Benchmarking is the process of measuring the computational resources (execution time and storage) required by your pallet's extrinsics. Accurate [weight](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/weights/index.html){target=\_blank} calculations are essential for ensuring your blockchain can process transactions efficiently while protecting against denial-of-service attacks.

This guide continues the pallet development series, building on the [Create a Pallet](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/create-a-pallet), [Mock Your Runtime](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/mock-runtime), and [Test Your Pallet](/parachains/customize-runtime/pallet-development/pallet-testing) tutorials. You'll learn how to benchmark the counter pallet extrinsics and integrate the generated weights into your runtime.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- Completed the previous pallet development tutorials

> - Basic understanding of computational complexity

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a link for computational complexity if readers aren't familiar with it. For example:
"basic understanding of computational complexity (check this [page] to understand what is it)"

By calling `T::WeightInfo::function_name()` instead of using hardcoded `Weight::from_parts()` values, your extrinsics automatically use whichever weight implementation is configured in the runtime. This allows you to easily switch between placeholder weights for testing and benchmarked weights for production without changing any pallet code.

Replace the placeholder weights in your extrinsics with calls to the `WeightInfo` trait:

```rust title="pallets/pallet-custom/src/lib.rs"
#[pallet::call]
impl<T: Config> Pallet<T> {
    #[pallet::call_index(0)]
    #[pallet::weight(T::WeightInfo::set_counter_value())]
    pub fn set_counter_value(origin: OriginFor<T>, new_value: u32) -> DispatchResult {
        // ... implementation
    }

    #[pallet::call_index(1)]
    #[pallet::weight(T::WeightInfo::increment())]
    pub fn increment(origin: OriginFor<T>, amount: u32) -> DispatchResult {
        // ... implementation
    }

    #[pallet::call_index(2)]
    #[pallet::weight(T::WeightInfo::decrement())]
    pub fn decrement(origin: OriginFor<T>, amount: u32) -> DispatchResult {
        // ... implementation
    }
}
```

## Step 5: Include the Benchmarking Module

> The `#[cfg(feature = "runtime-benchmarks")]` attribute ensures that benchmarking code is only compiled when explicitly needed. This keeps your production runtime lean by excluding benchmarking infrastructure from normal builds, as it's only needed when generating weights.

Reviewer 3: Did you mean to say: "This keeps your production runtime Clean"? or "lean" was the correct word?
